!\mainpage \verbatim Planet House Escape Documentation \endverbatim

\section welcome Welcome

This is the main page of the documentation. You can navigate through the various links generated by doxygen.

However, for end users, this main page will get you started on how to install and play the game.






\section install_sec Installation

\section archived_files Working with Archived Files

To install the game, you're going to need a program which can extract an archived .zip file.
Most machines nowadays come with operating systems which already include such programs.
However, in case you do not have a program which can work on an archived .zip file, I recommend installing 7zip first.

- Here is a link to their download page: https://www.7-zip.org/ .

The installation instructions written here will assume that the user has 7zip installed.

After making sure you have means of working with an archived file, follow the rest of the instructions below.

\section install_steps Installation Steps

Visit the download page of the game: https://bigsnack.itch.io/planet-house-escape

There are 3 files:
- Build (Ultra).zip
- Build (Medium).zip
- Build (Lowest).zip

These are all the same game. However, the word in the parentheses represents the graphics settings.
In other words, Ultra will have the highest graphics settings; while Lowest will have the lowest graphics settings
(The reason for the unfriendliness behind the downloads will be explained later below).

Download one of the .zip files to your preference, and then follow the instructions below:

- Once you've downloaded the .zip file, right click on it. A context menu will open.
- In the context menu, look for "7-Zip", and click on it.
- Once clicked, a new menu will appear. Select "Extract Here".
- At this point, allow 7zip to work on extracting the archived file.
- When it is done, you'll see a new folder with the same name as the .zip file. However, this folder does not have a .zip extension.
- Double click on this new folder.
- You will see an executable file named "PlanetHouseEscape.exe". Double click on this, and the game will run.
- Once the game running, you can take a look at the controls of the game from the main menu.
- Enjoy!







\section explanation The Reason Behind the Unfriendliness of the Downloads

It is due to the decisions behind the developers of the Unity game engine.
Unity Engine used to have a pre-made default configuration menu at the start of the game, which allowed you to choose graphics settings.
It looks like they removed this default option, and I realized this until it was too late, so this is a band-aid solution.
The alternative is to actually prepare an in-game graphics menu, which is outside the coverage of this university project.





\section controls Controls of the Game

(Key -> Explanation)

- W -> Move forward
- S -> Move back
- A -> Strafe left
- D -> Strafe right
- Spacebar -> Jump
- E -> Interact
- M -> Pause menu

- Holding right mouse button -> Pick up and hold object
- Releasing right mouse button -> Drop the picked up object
- Tapping left mouse button while holding an object -> Throw the object
- Mouse wheel up/down -> Zooming in/out of the picked up object

- --- While holding right mouse button:
- Hold X and move mouse up/down -> Rotate picked up object about the X axis
- Hold Y and move mouse left/right -> Rotate picked up object about the Y axis
- Hold Z and move mouse left/right-> Rotate picked up object about the Z axis




\section goals Goal of the Game

Your goal is to escape the house. The key is inside the glass/blue rectangle ("planetarium") in the hall. To acquire the key (red colored), you must find and insert all eight planets into the aquarium. After inserting the planets, the key will drop. You must carry the key to the door (with the red handle) and it will automatically be opened.

Good luck.




\section hints Hints to Beat the Game

*
*
*
\b WARNING: Spoilers ahead! 
*
*
*
*
*
*

- Most planets can be found hidden behind objects in the house. Try exploring.
- The "pool of planets" in the cellar (which is inside the kitchen), contains many decoy planets, and one unique planet.
- Try turning off the lights in the bedroom.
- The letter eating machine is hungry for the 80th chemical element.
- The "parkour room" contains a planet which is too far out of reach. Try picking up and rotating the logs below the room to get across.
